And definitely what's come up, I think two or three people have asked about it, is the
eco-pulver and yeast are not a good blend because the whole point is to remove the mucilage
mechanically, so you take away all the food, and then if you want to have a fermentation
you're starving from the yeast.
So those two things do not work as a mesh.
And a lot of mills have moved over to an eco-pulver because it was more environmentally friendly
and it's less water because you don't have to wash the coffee maker.
It's not that it doesn't do water.
So in this method, we're hoping without water, but then Jarmarko pointed out,
"Okay, but there's water in the tank."
So if you get close, you see, that's not all juice.
That's water that we've added back, because I do need water to be able to mix and move the yeast.
Because if we put the yeast on top, it's non-local.
It's not going to move.
So the yeast is not going to go anywhere.
So I need water to mix and move.
This way I can control how much water.
Because what we've done other times is if the water, if the pulper is being pulped,
the cherry is being pulped with water and it's also filling the tank,
it can be too quick, too much, too quickly, and then it overflows.
So then we start to let out some of the water and then I'm letting go of some of those sugars
that I want for my fermentation.
So instead of pulping with water, we just add back a little bit.
like it gives us more control later on.
- But if you're a pulper, do you have to use some water?
- When you're that big, usually you need the water
to get the cherries to the pulper,
and then it just kind of overflows.
So at a very large scale, it's really difficult.
We can try to turn it down,
but a lot of them are so efficient in water,
it's really hard to get them to dissolve.
- Like a candy, for example,
[INAUDIBLE]
But then just take this water that you
use for the production of the pomegranates,
dump it back in the coffee mill.
If there's a way, if it's a mill--
and I've seen some that can capture--
like, they're separating it, but you can capture it
and add it back.
I think that's a really good method.
Some ones, because I haven't thought about that,
it's way more effort to try and capture it,
and you get more contamination because these grains
are the ones that are going.
So it really depends on how the beneficio was built.
If it was built so you can recapture, great.
And that's one thing when you're building a new place, a new facility,
is thinking about how can you recapture some of this liquid
to either put back into fermentation or just for wastewater purposes.
The third thing to notice is there's a lot of gasketa in here.
So what we really want is we just want the cherry, we just want the cold coffee and we
want the skin to be on this side.
So it should be much cleaner than this.
This machine is, we had it in our garage, so it's not something that's in constant use
and it's not very well calibrated.
So this is not an example.
You know, this is not what we want.
This is not a great specialty coffee.
So what we're going to do now to compensate that because I have so many hands here is
we're going to clean it.
We're going to try and take out as much of these by hand as we can to get our fermentation
in a good place because what this is, remember this is all of the microbial competition.
I'm adding yeast so I don't want all of this competing and making my fermentation more
variable, more irregular.
So, we have a couple of them over here.
[BLANK_AUDIO]